Improve the L1-L2 Messaging Page (#258)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/arbos/l1-to-l2-messaging.mdx

## Retryable Tickets Lifecycle

Here we walk through the different stages of the lifecycle of a retryable ticket; (1) submission, (2) auto-redemption, and (3) manual redemption.

### Submission

1. Creating a retryable ticket is initiated with a transaction call to the `createRetryableTicket` function of the `inbox` contract. This function has a set of parameters which lead to a succesfull creation (and redemption) of the ticket if set carefully. 
Note that, this function forces the sender to provide a _reasonable_ amount of funds (at least enough to submitting, and _attempting_ to executing the ticket), but that doesn't guarantee a successful auto-redemption.

>     - `address to`: The destination L2 contract address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `address to`: The destination L2 address
```

    - `uint256 l2CallValue`: The callvalue for retryable L2 message

>     - `uint256 maxSubmissionCost`: The maximum amount of gas to be paid for submitting the ticket. This amount is deducted from sender's L2 balance and is directly proportional to the size of the retryable’s data  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `uint256 maxSubmissionCost`: The maximum amount of eth to be paid for submitting the ticket. This amount is deducted from sender's L2 balance and is directly proportional to the size of the retryable’s data and l1 basefee 
```

also n.t. this value need to be supplied in the l1 callvalue with l2CallValue and  l2gasfee
https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/blob/a68783436b5105a64f54efe5fbd55174704a7618/src/bridge/Inbox.sol#LL443C26-L443C83
```
        if (msg.value < (maxSubmissionCost + l2CallValue + gasLimit * maxFeePerGas)) {
```

>     - `address excessFeeRefundAddress`: The L2 address to which the excess fee is credited (gasLimit * maxFeePerGas - ticket execution cost)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `address excessFeeRefundAddress`: The L2 address to which the excess fee is credited (l1callvalue - autoredeem ? 0 : (submission cost) - l2callvalue - ticket execution cost)
```

    - `address callValueRefundAddress`: The L2 address to which the l2Callvalue is credited if the ticket times out or gets cancelled

>     - `uint256 gasLimit`: Maximum amount of  gas deducted from sender's L2 balance to cover L2 execution of the ticket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `uint256 gasLimit`: Maximum amount of gas used to cover L2 execution of the ticket
```

>     - `uint256 maxFeePerGas`: The Price bid for L2 execution of the ticket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `uint256 maxFeePerGas`: The gas price bid for L2 execution of the ticket
```

>     - `bytes calldata data`: ABI encoded data of L2 message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `bytes calldata data`: Calldata to the destination L2 address
```

    <NodeDescription for='3'><code>Check user's deposit</code> Logic that checks if the user have enough funds to create a ticket. This is done by checking if the `msg.value` provided by the user is greater than or equal to <code>maxSubmissionCost + l2CallValue + gasLimit * maxFeePerGas</code></NodeDescription>
    <NodeDescription for='4'><code>Ticket creation fails</code> Ticket creation fails and no funds are deducted from the user</NodeDescription>
    <NodeDescription for='5'><code>Ticket is created</code> A  ticket is created and added to the retryable buffer on L2.
                          Funds (<code>l2CallValue + submissionCost</code>) are deducted to cover the callvalue from the user and 
                          placed into escrow (on L2) for later use in redeeming the ticket</NodeDescription>
  </NodeDescriptions>
</MermaidWithHtml>

### Automatic Redemption

4. It is very important to note that the submission of a ticket on L1 is separable / asynchronous from its execution on L2, i.e., a successful L1 ticket creation does not guarantee a successful redemption. 

> Once the ticket is successfully cretaed, the two following conditions are checked: (1) if the user's L2 balance is greater than (or equal to) `l2Basefee * gasLimit` **and** (2) if the `maxFeePerGas` (provided by the user in the ticket submission process) is greater than (or equal to) the `l2Basefee`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the ticket is successfully created, the two following conditions are checked: (1) if the user's L2 balance is greater than (or equal to) `maxFeePerGas * gasLimit` **and** (2) if the `maxFeePerGas` (provided by the user in the ticket submission process) is greater than (or equal to) the `l2Basefee`.
```
https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/blob/e4b1551a6283146481377107691d82788205d3ca/arbos/tx_processor.go#L261

<MermaidWithHtml>
  <Nodes title="Automatic Redemption of the Ticket">
    <Node id="1">Does the auto-redeem succeed?</Node>
    <Node id="2">Ticket is executed</Node>
    <Node id="3">Ticket is deleted</Node>
    <Node id="4">excessFeeRefundAddress gets refunded</Node>
    <Connection from="1" to="2" label="yes"/>
    <Connection from="2" to="3"/>
    <Connection from="1" to="4" label="no"/>
  </Nodes>
  <NodeDescriptions>
    <NodeDescription for='1'><code>Does the auto-redeem succeed?</code> Logic that determines if the user's L2 Balance is greater than (or equal to) <code>l2Basefee * gasLimit</code> && <code>maxFeePerGas</code> is greater than (or equal to) the <code>l2Basefee</code></NodeDescription>
    <NodeDescription for='2'><code>Ticket is executed</code> Ticket is executed, the actual  <code>submissionFee</code> is refunded to the  <code>excessFeeRefundAddress</code> since the ticket was not kept in the buffer on L2</NodeDescription>
    <NodeDescription for='3'><code>Ticket is deleted</code> Ticket gets deleted from the L2 retryable buffer</NodeDescription>

>     <NodeDescription for='4'><code>excessFeeRefundAddress gets refunded</code> <code>excessFeeRefundAddress</code> gets refunded with <code>(maxGas - gasUsed) * gasPrice</code>. Note that this amount is capped by <code>gasUsed * baseFee</code> in the auto-reddem</NodeDescription>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <NodeDescription for='4'><code>excessFeeRefundAddress gets refunded</code> <code>excessFeeRefundAddress</code> gets refunded with <code>(maxGas - gasUsed) * gasPrice</code>. Note that this amount is capped by <code>l2callvalue</code> in the auto-redeem</NodeDescription>
```

https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/blob/e4b1551a6283146481377107691d82788205d3ca/arbos/tx_processor.go#L168

  </NodeDescriptions>
</MermaidWithHtml>

### Manual Redemption

> 5. At this point, _anyone_ can attempt to manually redeem the ticket again by calling `ArbRetryableTx`'s redeem precompile method, which donates the call's gas to the next attempt. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. At this point, _anyone_ can attempt to manually redeem the ticket again by calling `ArbRetryableTx`'s redeem precompile method, which donates the call's gas to the next attempt. The amount of gas is NOT limited by the original gasLimit.
```

Note that the redeem attempt's gas comes from the call to redeem, so there's no chance the block's gas limit is reached before execution.
6. If the fixed period (one week) elapses without a successful redeem, the ticket **expires** and will be [automatically **discarded**][discard_link], unless some party has paid a fee to [**renew**][renew_link] the ticket for another full period. A ticket can live indefinitely as long as it is renewed each time before it expires.

[enqueue_link]: https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/blob/fa36a0f138b8a7e684194f9840315d80c390f324/arbos/block_processor.go#L245
[exhaust_link]: https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/blob/fa36a0f138b8a7e684194f9840315d80c390f324/arbos/block_processor.go#L135
[discard_link]: https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/blob/fa36a0f138b8a7e684194f9840315d80c390f324/arbos/retryables/retryable.go#L262

> [renew_link]: https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/blob/fa36a0f138b8a7e684194f9840315d80c390f324/arbos/retryables/retryable.go#L207

Reviewer: use keepalive instead of renew?
https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/blob/a68783436b5105a64f54efe5fbd55174704a7618/src/precompiles/ArbRetryableTx.sol#L41

<MermaidWithHtml>
  <Nodes title="Manual Redemption of the Ticket">
    <Node id="1">Ticket manually cancelled or not redeemed in 7 days?</Node>
    <Node id="2">excessFeeRefundAddress gets refunded</Node>
    <Node id="3">Ticket is deleted</Node>
    <Node id="4">Ticket manually redeemed?</Node>
    <Connection from="1" to="2" label="yes"/>
    <Connection from="2" to="3"/>
    <Connection from="1" to="4" label="no"/>
    <Connection from="4" to="3" label="yes"/> 
    <Connection from="4" to="1" label="no"/> 
  </Nodes>
  <NodeDescriptions>
    <NodeDescription for='1'><code>Is the ticket manually cancelled or not redeemed within 7 days?</code> Logic that determines if the ticket is manually cancelled or not redeemed within 7 days (i.e., is expired)</NodeDescription>

>     <NodeDescription for='2'><code>excessFeeRefundAddress gets refunded</code> excessFeeRefundAddress is refunded with the <code>l2CallValue</code></NodeDescription>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <NodeDescription for='2'><code>callValueRefundAddress gets refunded</code> callValueRefundAddress is refunded with the <code>l2CallValue</code></NodeDescription>
```

    <NodeDescription for='3'><code>Ticket is deleted</code> Ticket gets deleted from the L2 retryable buffer</NodeDescription>
    <NodeDescription for='4'><code>Is the ticket manually redeemed</code> Logic that determines if the ticket is manually redeemed</NodeDescription>
  </NodeDescriptions>
</MermaidWithHtml>

:::caution Avoid Losing Funds!

> If a ticket expires after 7 days without being redeemed or re-scheduled to a future date, any value (other than the escrowed `callvalue`) it carries could be lost without possibility of being recovered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a ticket expires after 7 days without being redeemed or re-scheduled to a future date, any message and value (other than the escrowed `callvalue`) it carries could be lost without possibility of being recovered.
```

:::

> On success, the `To` address keeps the escrowed callvalue, and any unused gas is returned to ArbOS's gas pools. On failure, the callvalue is returned to the escrow for the next redeemer. In either case, the network fee was paid during the scheduling tx, so no fees are charged and no refunds are made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On success, the `To` address receives the escrowed callvalue, and any unused gas is returned to ArbOS's gas pools. On failure, the callvalue is returned to the escrow for future redeem attempt. In either case, the network fee was paid during the scheduling tx, so no fees are charged and no refunds are made.
```

:::note Important Notes:

If a redeem is not done at submission or the submission's initial redeem fails, anyone can attempt to redeem the retryable again by calling [`ArbRetryableTx`](precompiles#ArbRetryableTx)'s [`redeem`](./precompiles#ArbRetryableTx) precompile method, which donates the call's gas to the next attempt. ArbOS will [enqueue the redeem][enqueue_link], which is its own special `ArbitrumRetryTx` type, to its list of redeems that ArbOS [guarantees to exhaust][exhaust_link] before moving on to the next non-redeem transaction in the block its forming. In this manner redeems are scheduled to happen as soon as possible, and will always be in the same block as the transaction that scheduled it. Note that the redeem attempt's gas comes from the call to [`redeem`](./precompiles#ArbRetryableTx), so there's no chance the block's gas limit is reached before execution.

- One can redeem live tickets using the [Arbitrum Retryables Transaction Panel][retryable_dashboard_link]
- The calldata of a ticket is saved on L2 until it is redeemed or expired 

> - Redeeming cost of a ticket will not increase over time, it only depends on the size of the calldata being kept on L2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Redeeming cost of a ticket will not increase over time, it only depends on current gas price and gas required for execution
```

:::

> [retryable_dashboard_link]: https://retryable-tx-panel-nitro.arbitrum.io

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[retryable_dashboard_link]: https://retryable-dashboard.arbitrum.io/
```

- **Redeem Attempt**: A redeem attempt receipt represents the result of an attempted L2 execution of a ticket, i.e, success / failure of that specific redeem attempt. It includes a `RedeemScheduled` event from [`ArbRetryableTx`](./precompiles#ArbRetryableTx), with a `ticketId` field. At most, one successful redeem attempt can ever exist for a given ticket; if, e.g., the auto-redeem upon initial creation succeeds, only the receipt from the auto-redeem will ever get emitted for that ticket. If the auto-redeem fails (or was never attempted — i.e., the provided L2 gas limit \* L2 gas price = 0), each initial attempt will emit a redeem attempt receipt until one succeeds.

### Alternative "unsafe" Retryable Ticket Creation

> The `Inbox.createRetryableTicket` convenience method includes sanity checks to help minimize the risk of user error: the method will ensure that enough funds are provided directly from L1 to cover the current cost of ticket creation / execution. It also will convert the provided `beneficiary` or `excessFeeRefundAddress` to its address alias (see below) if either is a contract, providing a path for the L1 contract to recover funds. A power-user may bypass these sanity-check measures via the `Inbox`'s `unsafeCreateRetryableTicket` method; as the method's name desperately attempts to warn you, it should only be accessed by a user who truly knows what they're doing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Inbox.createRetryableTicket` convenience method includes sanity checks to help minimize the risk of user error: the method will ensure that enough funds are provided directly from L1 to cover the current cost of ticket creation. It also will convert the provided `callValueRefundAddress` and `excessFeeRefundAddress` to its address alias (see below) if either is a contract (determined by if the address has code during the call), providing a path for the L1 contract to recover funds. A power-user may bypass these sanity-check measures via the `Inbox`'s `unsafeCreateRetryableTicket` method; as the method's name desperately attempts to warn you, it should only be accessed by a user who truly knows what they're doing.
```

import { AddressAliasHelper } from '@site/src/components/AddressAliasHelper'
import { MermaidWithHtml, Nodes, Node, Connection, NodeDescriptions, NodeDescription } from '/src/components/MermaidWithHtml/MermaidWithHtml';

# L1 To L2 Messaging

## Retryable Tickets

Retryable tickets are Arbitrum's canonical method for creating L1 to L2 messages, i.e., L1 transactions that initiate a message to be executed on L2. A retryable can be submitted for a fixed cost (dependent only on its calldata size) paid at L1; its _submission_ on L1 is separable / asynchronous with its _execution_ on L2. Retryables provide atomicity between the cross chain operations; if the L1 transaction to request submission succeeds (i.e. does not revert) then the execution of the Retryable on L2 has a strong guarantee to ultimately succeed as well.

## Retryable Tickets Lifecycle

Here we walk through the different stages of the lifecycle of a retryable ticket; (1) submission, (2) auto-redemption, and (3) manual redemption.

### Submission

> 1. Creating a retryable ticket is initiated with a call (direct or internal) to the `createRetryableTicket` function of the `inbox` contract. A ticket is garanteed to be created if this call succeeds. Here, we describe parameters that need to be carefully set.

Reviewer 2: Also, should we add a link to the Inbox contract on the nitro repo? It might be useful to check the function code.

Note that, this function forces the sender to provide a _reasonable_ amount of funds (at least enough to submitting, and _attempting_ to executing the ticket), but that doesn't guarantee a successful auto-redemption.

>     - `deposit (l1CallValue)`: Not a real function parameter, it is rather the callValue that is sent along with the transaction

Reviewer 2: It might be only me, but I find this a bit confusing, specially by being the first one in the list. I was expecting to see parameters of the function and the first one is described as "not being a function parameter". Also, calling it "deposit" makes it hard for me to realize it's the call value sent with the tx. I would have maybe called it "l1 callvalue (also referred to as deposit)" or something like that, because there are many references to "deposit" in the rest of the document.

Again, maybe it's just me, so disregard the comment if it seems clear enough for others !

Author: The reason for l1CallValue being the first in the list is it's used in other params definitions, e.g., l2CallValue.
So I guess it still makes sense to keep it there. But I'll def change add ` (also referred to as deposit)`. We also refer to this as deposit in the SDK code so I think that makes sense.

    - `address to`: The destination L2 address
    - `uint256 l2CallValue`: The callvalue for retryable L2 message that is supplied within the deposit (l1CallValue)

>     - `uint256 maxSubmissionCost`: The maximum amount of ETH to be paid for submitting the ticket. This amount is (1) supplied within the deposit (l1CallValue) (2) deducted from sender's L2 balance and is (3) directly proportional to the size of the retryable’s data and L1 basefee  

Reviewer 2: I don't remember exactly how this worked, but in this description it looks like the amount is paid twice: (1) supplied within the deposit, and (2) deducted from the sender's L2 balance.
Is it also added to the sender's balance on L2 before being deducted there? I don't remember.

    - `bytes calldata data`: The calldata to the destination L2 address

2. Sender's deposit must be enough to make the L1 submission succeed and for the L2 execution to be _attempted_. If provided correctly, a new ticket with a unique `TicketID` is created and added to retryable buffer. Also, funds (`submissionCost` + `l2CallValue`) are deducted from the sender and placed into the escrow for later use in redeeming the ticket.
3. Ticket creation causes the [`ArbRetryableTx`](./precompiles#ArbRetryableTx) precompile to emit a `TicketCreated` event containing the `TicketID` on L2.

<MermaidWithHtml>
  <Nodes title="Ticket Submission">
    <Node id="1">🧍</Node>
    <Node id="2">Initiating an L1-L2 message</Node>
    <Node id="3">Enough deposit?</Node>
    <Node id="4">Ticket creation fails</Node>
    <Node id="5">Ticket is created</Node>
    <Connection from="1" to="2"/>
    <Connection from="2" to="3"/>
    <Connection from="3" to="4" label="no"/>
    <Connection from="3" to="5" label="yes"/>
  </Nodes>
  <NodeDescriptions>
    <NodeDescription for='1'><code>🧍</code> The user who initiates an L1-L2 message</NodeDescription>

>     <NodeDescription for='2'><code>Initiating an L1-L2 message</code> A call to `inbox.createRetryable` function that puts the message in the L2 inbox that can be re-executed for some fixed amount of time if it reverts</NodeDescription>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <NodeDescription for='2'><code>Initiating an L1-L2 message</code> A call to `inbox.createRetryableTicket` function that puts the message in the L2 inbox that can be re-executed for some fixed amount of time if it reverts</NodeDescription>
```

<MermaidWithHtml>
  <Nodes title="Automatic Redemption of the Ticket">
    <Node id="1">Auto-redeem succeeds?</Node>
    <Node id="2">Ticket is executed</Node>
    <Node id="3">Ticket is deleted</Node>
    <Node id="4">callValueRefundAddress gets refunded</Node>
    <Connection from="1" to="2" label="yes"/>
    <Connection from="2" to="3"/>
    <Connection from="1" to="4" label="no"/>
  </Nodes>
  <NodeDescriptions>
    <NodeDescription for='1'><code>Does the auto-redeem succeed?</code> Logic that determines if the user's L2 Balance is greater than (or equal to) <code>maxFeePerGas * gasLimit</code> && <code>maxFeePerGas</code> is greater than (or equal to) the <code>l2Basefee</code></NodeDescription>
    <NodeDescription for='2'><code>Ticket is executed</code> Ticket is executed, the actual <code>submissionFee</code> is refunded to the  <code>excessFeeRefundAddress</code> since the ticket was not kept in the buffer on L2</NodeDescription>
    <NodeDescription for='3'><code>Ticket is deleted</code> Ticket gets deleted from the L2 retryable buffer</NodeDescription>

>     <NodeDescription for='4'><code>callValueRefundAddress gets refunded</code> <code>callValueRefundAddress</code> gets refunded with <code>(maxGas - gasUsed) * gasPrice</code>. Note that this amount is capped by <code>l1CallValue</code> in the auto-redeem</NodeDescription>

Reviewer 2: Should we add one more step indicating that the Ticket stays created for one week if not autoredeemed?
(Not sure about this)

  </NodeDescriptions>
</MermaidWithHtml>

### Manual Redemption

> 5. At this point, _anyone_ can attempt to manually redeem the ticket again by calling `ArbRetryableTx`'s redeem precompile method, which donates the call's gas to the next attempt. Note that the amount of gas is NOT limited by the original gasLimit set during the ticket creation.

Reviewer 2: I would maybe add that this steps only apply if the automatic redemption failed.

## Retryable Tickets Lifecycle

Here we walk through the different stages of the lifecycle of a retryable ticket, shown in the diagram below.

<RetryablesLifeCycleDiagram />

1. Creating a retryable ticket is initiated with a transaction call to the `createRetryableTicket` function of the `inbox` contract. This function has a set of parameters which lead to a succesfull creation (and redemption) of the ticket if set carefully:

    - `address to`: The destination L2 contract address
    - `uint256 l2CallValue`: The callvalue for retryable L2 message
    - `uint256 maxSubmissionCost`: The maximum amount of gas to be paid for submitting the ticket. This amount is deducted from sender's L2 balance and is directly proportional to the size of the retryable’s data  

>     - `address excessFeeRefundAddress`: The L2 address to which the excess fee is creadited (gasLimit * maxFeePerGas - ticket execution cost)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `address excessFeeRefundAddress`: The L2 address to which the excess fee is credited (gasLimit * maxFeePerGas - ticket execution cost)
```

>     - `address callValueRefundAddress`: The L2 address to which the l2Callvalue if the ticket times out or gets cancelled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `address callValueRefundAddress`: The L2 address to which the l2Callvalue is credited if the ticket times out or gets cancelled
```

    - `uint256 gasLimit`: Maximum amount of  gas deducted from sender's L2 balance to cover L2 execution of the ticket
    - `uint256 maxFeePerGas`: The Price bid for L2 execution of the ticket
    - `bytes calldata data`: ABI encoded data of L2 message

> 2. As shown in the diagram above, the sender's deposit must be enough to make the submission succeed (i.e, cover the L1 submission and L2 execution of the ticket).

Reviewer 2: "enough to make the submission succeed"
It should make the submission AND execution succeed. Should we use another word there? (Same in the diagram)

Reviewer 3: it's more like "it must be enough to make the submission exceed and for the execution to be _attempted_", i.e., for the later, it has to cover the execution cost as per the provided arguements (but that doesn't guarantee success)

Reviewer 3: might be worth explaining the rationale here (maybe at the beginning of the Lifecycle section?) to clarify; i.e., the L1 contract forces you to provide a "reasonable" amount of funds (at least enough to cover x, y, and z), but that doesn't mean we guarantee successful auto-redemption

Author: Makes sense. Thanks guys! Will figure out an edit

3. If provided correctly, a new ticket with a unique `TicketID` is created and added to retryable buffer. Also, funds (`submissionCost` + `l2CallValue`) are deducted from the sender and placed into the escrow for later use in redeeming the ticket.

> 4. Ticket creation causes the [`ArbRetryableTx`](./precompiles#ArbRetryableTx) precompile to emit a `TicketCreated` event containing the `TicketID`.

Reviewer 2: Should we mention that this step occurs in L2? (We've been describing the process happening in L1 until now)

> 5. It is very important to note that the submission of a ticket on L1 is separable / asynchronous from its execution on L2, i.e., a successful L1 ticket creation does not guarantee a successful redemption. Assuming the sender has provided enough gas that can cover the L2 execution/redemption of the ticket on step 1,  ticket's submission is followed by an attempt to execute it on L2 (i.e., an **auto-redeem** using the supplied gas, as if the [`redeem`](./precompiles#ArbRetryableTx) method of the ArbRetryableTx precompile had been called). Depending on how much gas the sender has provided in step 1, ticket's redemption can either (1) immediately succeed or (2) fail. We explain both situations here:

Reviewer 3: > Assuming the sender has provided enough gas that can cover the L2 execution/redemption of the ticket on step 1
As with above: a bit of a nuance, but the sender was _forced_ to provide enough gas to meet their gas price / value arguments; so this case is really just assuming that both maxGas and maxPrice are > 0

Author: You're right. I'd made it clear at the beginning of the section that _any_ submission is followed by an attempt for the redemption (though not guaranteed).That being said,  I'd say we could just remove `Assuming the sender has provided enough gas that can cover the L2 execution/redemption of the ticket on step 1` then. What's your call?

> - If the ticket is sucessfully auto-redeemed, it will execute with the sender, destination, callvalue, and calldata of the original submission. The submission fee is refunded to the user on L2 (`excessFeeRefundAddress`). Note that to ensure successful auto-redeem of the ticket, one could use the Arbitrum SDK which provides a [convenience function][https://github.com/OffchainLabs/arbitrum-sdk/blob/4cedb1fcf1c7302a4c3d0f8e75fb33d82bc8338d/src/lib/message/L1ToL2MessageGasEstimator.ts#L215] that returns the desired gas parameters when sending L2-L1 messages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If the ticket is sucessfully auto-redeemed, it will execute with the sender, destination, callvalue, and calldata of the original submission. The submission fee is refunded to the user on L2 (`excessFeeRefundAddress`). Note that to ensure successful auto-redeem of the ticket, one could use the Arbitrum SDK which provides a [convenience function](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/arbitrum-sdk/blob/4cedb1fcf1c7302a4c3d0f8e75fb33d82bc8338d/src/lib/message/L1ToL2MessageGasEstimator.ts#L215) that returns the desired gas parameters when sending L2-L1 messages.
```

> - If the ticket is sucessfully auto-redeemed, it will execute with the sender, destination, callvalue, and calldata of the original submission. The submission fee is refunded to the user on L2 (`excessFeeRefundAddress`). Note that to ensure successful auto-redeem of the ticket, one could use the Arbitrum SDK which provides a [convenience function][https://github.com/OffchainLabs/arbitrum-sdk/blob/4cedb1fcf1c7302a4c3d0f8e75fb33d82bc8338d/src/lib/message/L1ToL2MessageGasEstimator.ts#L215] that returns the desired gas parameters when sending L2-L1 messages.

Reviewer 3: <s>L2-L1</s> L1-L2

> - If a redeem is not done at submission or the submission's initial redeem fails (for example, because the L2 gas price has increased unexpectedly), the submission fee is collected on L2 to cover the resources required to temporarily keep the ticket in memory for a fixed period (currently one week).

Reviewer 3: I think we can remove "currently"

Note that the redeem attempt's gas comes from the call to redeem, so there's no chance the block's gas limit is reached before execution.
If the fixed period (one week) elapses without a successful redeem, the ticket **expires** and will be [automatically **discarded**][discard_link], unless some party has paid a fee to [**renew**][renew_link] the ticket for another full period. A ticket can live indefinitely as long as it is renewed each time before it expires.

[enqueue_link]: https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/blob/fa36a0f138b8a7e684194f9840315d80c390f324/arbos/block_processor.go#L245
[exhaust_link]: https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/blob/fa36a0f138b8a7e684194f9840315d80c390f324/arbos/block_processor.go#L135
[discard_link]: https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/blob/fa36a0f138b8a7e684194f9840315d80c390f324/arbos/retryables/retryable.go#L262
[renew_link]: https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/blob/fa36a0f138b8a7e684194f9840315d80c390f324/arbos/retryables/retryable.go#L207

:::caution Avoid Losing Funds!

> If a ticket expires after 7 days without being redeemed or re-scheduled to a future date, any value it carries will get lost without possibility of recovering them.

Reviewer 2: 🔥 🔥 🔥

> If a ticket expires after 7 days without being redeemed or re-scheduled to a future date, any value it carries will get lost without possibility of recovering them.

Reviewer 2: Should that "any value" be "any value (other than the escrowed callvalue)" ?
It is mentioned in a few paragraphs below.

Reviewer 3: I do like keeping the warning dire, but probably "could be lost" is more accurate. Eth in callvalue (as @TucksonDev said) or excess fees is recoverable, and, e.g., in theory a bridge could be constructed that allows for L1 recovery of failed deposits, etc.

:::

On success, the `To` address keeps the escrowed callvalue, and any unused gas is returned to ArbOS's gas pools. On failure, the callvalue is returned to the escrow for the next redeemer. In either case, the network fee was paid during the scheduling tx, so no fees are charged and no refunds are made.

Note that during redemption of a ticket, attempts to cancel the same ticket, or to schedule another redeem of the same ticket, will revert. In this manner retryable tickets are not self-modifying.

> If a ticket with a callvalue is eventually discarded, having never successfully run, the escrowed callvalue will be paid out to a `callValueRefundAddress` account that was specified in the initial submission (step 1).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a ticket with a callvalue is eventually discarded (cancelled or expired), having never successfully run, the escrowed callvalue will be paid out to a `callValueRefundAddress` account that was specified in the initial submission (step 1).
```

:::note Important Notes:

- One can redeem live tickets using the [Arbitrum Retryables Transaction Panel][retryable_dashboard_link]
- The calldata of a ticket is saved on L2 until it is redeemed or expired 
- Redeeming cost of a ticket will not increase over time, it only depends on the size of the calldata being kept on L2

> - The reason a ticket expires after one week is so it frees up the space it is no longer using after that period

Reviewer 3: this feels like it belongs elsewhere (since it's design rationale, which doesn't feel like "important note" IMO)

Author: We had some teams asking us about why tickets expire after all? And that's the only reason I squeezed it here. Let's remove it though, don't like it here either

:::

[retryable_dashboard_link]: https://retryable-tx-panel-nitro.arbitrum.io

### Receipts

In the lifecycle of a retryable ticket, two types of L2 transaction receipts will be emitted:

- **Ticket Creation Receipt**: This receipt indicates that a ticket was successfully created; any successful L1 call to the `Inbox`'s `createRetryableTicket` method is guaranteed to create a ticket. The ticket creation receipt includes a `TicketCreated` event (from [`ArbRetryableTx`](./precompiles#ArbRetryableTx)), which includes a `ticketId` field. This `ticketId` is computable via RLP encoding and hashing the transaction; see [calculateSubmitRetryableId](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/arbitrum-sdk/blob/6cc143a3bb019dc4c39c8bcc4aeac9f1a48acb01/src/lib/message/L1ToL2Message.ts#L109).

> - **Redeem Attempt**: A redeem attempt receipt represents the result of an attempted L2 execution of a ticket. It includes a `RedeemScheduled` event from [`ArbRetryableTx`](./precompiles#ArbRetryableTx), with a `ticketId` field. At most, one successful redeem attempt can ever exist for a given ticket; if, e.g., the auto-redeem upon initial creation succeeds, only the receipt from the auto-redeem will ever get emitted for that ticket. If the auto-redeem fails (or was never attempted — i.e., the provided L2 gas limit \* L2 gas price = 0), each initial attempt will emit a redeem attempt receipt until one succeeds.

Reviewer 3: Should we explicitly say that the status of these redeem attempt receipts corresponds to the success / failure of that specific redeem attempt? Maybe that's already self-evident, idk

Author: Doesn't hurt to add. How about this?
` A redeem attempt receipt represents the result of an attempted L2 execution of a ticket, i.e, success / failure of that specific redeem attempt`.
